# What is UID?

The `UID` purpose is to define a unique identifier across all the calendar components. 
It is basically a random generated sequence that will assure the uniqueness of every calendar component.
This property is mandatory in defining calendar components. 
Everyone  must assure that this unique identifier is added at the Creation Time of his calendar component, to be sure of the uniqueness of all the components.
An update of the component will not determine an update of the `UID` field value.
In order to have certainty of the uniqueness of every `UID`, a good algorithm should be created for generating.
Using a simple `UID` generation algorithm might lead to overridden events with the same `UID` generated by others using the same generation mechanism.

An example of an Event containing the `UID` Field

<pre><code>
BEGIN:VEVENT
SUMMARY:Lunchtime meeting
<strong>UID:ff808181-1fd7389e-011f-d7389ef9-00000003</strong>
DTSTART;TZID=America/New_York:20160420T120000
DURATION:PT1H
END:VEVENT
</code></pre>

# How should an UID be generated

The `UID` globally identifies a calendar component inside a calendaring system.
Because it is randomly generated by the system, the generating mechanism should be created taking into account as many variable as it can in order to generate a unique value.
There are some recommendations in generating this field value:
* put the domain name or a domain literal IP address of the host on which the identifier was created on the right-hand side of an "@", and on the left-hand side, put a combination of the current calendar date and time of day
* use a DATE-TIME value in generating the value
* make sure that the implementation supports values of at least 255 octets for this property


# UID usage in VEVENT, VTODO, and VJOURNAL

UID Property is very important for interoperability between scheduling applications that MUST generate it in `VEVENT`, `VTODO` and `VJOURNAL` calendar components.
This property is mandatory for each of the calendar components listed above and should be defined as consistent as possible for correlating scheduling messages.


# Handling UIDs inside Recurrent Events

The `UID` is a property that uniquely defined a calendar component at the CREATION Time. No further changes made on that component should affect the value of the `UID`.
One of the cases is a `RECURRENT-EVENT`, which contains a recurrence set of instances and a master event. 
In the case one of the instances gets modified a RECURRENT-ID VEVENT is created. The `RECURRENCE-ID` field is pointing to the date within the recurring rule but the `UID` will remain the same as the master event.
In this scenario, the uniqueness will be assured by the `UID` together with the `RECURRENCE-ID` values.

An example can be seen below:

<pre><code>
BEGIN:VCALENDAR
VERSION:2.0
PRODID:-//ABC Corporation//NONSGML My Product//EN
BEGIN:VEVENT
SUMMARY:Lunchtime meeting
<strong>UID:ff808181-1fd7389e-011f-d7389ef9-00000003</strong>
DTSTART;TZID=America/New_York:20160223T110000
DTEND;TZID=America/New_York:20160226T120000
RRULE:FREQ=DAILY
LOCATION:Mo's bar - back room
END:VEVENT
BEGIN:VEVENT
SUMMARY:Lunchtime meeting
<strong>UID:ff808181-1fd7389e-011f-d7389ef9-00000003
RECURRENCE-ID;TZID=America/New_York:20160225T120000</strong>
DTSTART;TZID=America/New_York:20160223T110000
DTEND;TZID=America/New_York:20160226T120000
LOCATION:Mo's bar - back room
END:VEVENT
END:VCALENDAR
</code></pre>

On the second event the uniqueness will consist on: 
<pre><code>UID:19960401T080045Z-4000F192713-0052@example.com
RECURRENCE-ID;TZID=Europe/Athens:20160224T110000</code></pre>
